The Importance of the Last Lecture
Randy Pausch’s “Last Lecture” might be one of the most inspiring lectures I have ever heard, and I do not mean that lightly. The way he talked about his successes and failures with the backdrop of his incoming looming illness had me riveted all the way through. I have seen a lot of motivational speakers, and most of them leave me with a similar message: “Do your best, don’t give up.” Pausch gives some of that, but he is a speaker that finally gives some specific instruction and direction on how to do your best and never give up. 
        Childhood dreams are something that I feel most people have, myself included. For example, I have been interested in film and TV from a very young age and have always wanted to make my own animated short film. But for my entire life, through practice and success and failure, I never started to make one because I felt like I wasn’t good enough yet. Like there was some bar I had to meet to begin because otherwise I would look back in the future and regret not waiting. Pausch began to pursue his childhood dreams as soon as he had the means to, no matter how ridiculous or out of reach it seemed. One of the patterns for all of them is that he took a dream and turned it into a plan. Something achievable even if it would take years of hard work. He would at least know where the start and end of the journey would be. I feel like that specificness is what I have been missing in my goals. To not just have a vision of where I should end up, but also a drawn out plan of how to get there. That’s not to say I should never waiver, however, as Pausch also brought up several “brick walls” that stood in his way but also provided opportunities to learn things he never planned in the first place. 
        Another huge point that I feel does not get brought up nearly enough in motivational speeches is how much you have to rely on other people and connections. With each dream, he had several people around him pointing him in the right direction or giving him words of wisdom that he used later down the road. From his parents, to his football coach, to the Disney executives, to William Shatner, none of Pausch’s goals would have been accomplished without the help of all these people. He was incredibly smart on his own, but his most powerful tool was how he could work with nearly anyone he was around to mutually benefit everyone. This is something I have been particularly bad about in my life; I am not very good at meeting people or networking, but getting better at that is just another skill to learn like academics. I can learn through practice, while finding ways to help both my dreams and others’. That was the final point that really stuck with me: that one of the greatest joys in life is helping others achieve their own childhood dreams. Pausch even went on to say that he had worked with his students later on when they were much more successful, both reveling in the fact that their dreams had been met. This is such an important message to get across to people like me, who have not met their childhood goals but are unknowingly already on their way to them.